to make the conditions for the
experiment authentic it's got to be
carried out in open water teeming with
adult sharks the leaf and Tunie will
dive in amongst the sharks and release
the repellent by hand
there are some pictures done there
they're a good a good couple of meters
which I don't think I was quite
expecting I was expecting to play
smaller shotgun
Caribbean reef and black tip aren't the
most aggressive of sharks but the
chumming has attracted quite a few one
two three four five six and the smaller
at the back is seven that's bizarre that
makes my heart go funny it's a quite
bizarre sensation to be sitting on the
side of a boat about to drop backwards
into it into a pool of team teeming with
sharks
safety divers and First Aiders
are standing by sharks everywhere
[Music]
more and more sharks are gathering it's
essentially this still tissue from
sharks dead sharks scientists realized
sharks are driven away by the smell of
rotting shark the leap and Tunie decide
to release the repellent
[Music]
sharks have a very acute sense of smell
but it takes a few minutes for the
liquid to disperse
one by one the Sharks the experiments
been a complete success
and could play a vital role in
protecting sharks in all our oceans
fantastic this shot is kind of doers and
in send something in hours to get here
definitely I just say that I smell a
short capella
I think it's a great great piece of size
it could be impregnation two wet suits
or sunscreens and it's just that it's
like widening the gap I think between
sharks and people I think this is how
science can come together to have a have
practical applications for conservation
and ultimately we have healthier more
sustainable oceans
[Music]